# MLGEO2024_AObuoypredict
Autumn 2024 project to predict buoy positions in the Arctic Ocean

## Motivation
The dynamics of the Arctic Ocean environment are complex and variable. [The International Arctic Buoy Programme (IABP)](https://iabp.apl.uw.edu/) is a collaborative effort to deploy and maintain a network of drifting buoys in the Arctic Ocean to collect oceanographic and meteorological data that support research for a variety of applications. While the buoys can provide real-time and historical information on their location and in-situ environment, predicting the motion of these drifting buoys is challenging. 

Accurate forecasts of buoy positions would be useful for a number of reasons. Imaging the features buoys are deployed on is of great interest to researchers of various disciplines. Recent developments in satellite imaging technology and the industry surrounding the practice have allowed researchers unprecedented access to high-resolution, on-demand imagery. However, these satellite imaging frameworks necessarily operate under the restrictions inherent to orbital intstrumentation - namely the need for advance (>24hrs) determination of areas of interest for instruments to target. Without an accurate prediction of where features of interest coincident with buoy deployments will be, satellite imaging regresses to guesswork. Failed captures are not only monetarily expensive, but also temporally expensive as icebergs are inherently transient, impermanent features. Furthermore, as climate change continues to affect the distribution and longevity of sea ice in the Arctic, ship traffic has increased dramatically. Forecasts of iceberg positions would provide ship operators with information that could serve to avoid collisions or other hazardous situations. 
